# The Hero’s Journey to Deep Learning CodeBase
## [Blog IIB: The Hero Rises: Build Your Own SSD](https://allegro.ai/blog/the-hero-rises-build-your-own-ssd/)

As the state-of-the-art models keep changing, one needs to effectively write a modular machine learning codebase to support and sustain R&D machine and deep learning efforts for years. In our first blog of this series, we demonstrated how to write a readable and maintainable code that trains a Torchvision MaskRCNN model, harnessing Ignite’s framework. In our second post (part IIA), we detailed the fundamental differences between single-shot and two-shot detectors and why the single-shot approach is in the sweet spot of the speed/accuracy trade-off. So it’s only natural that in this post we glean how to leverage the modular nature of the MaskRCNN codebase and enable it to train both MaskRCNN and SSD models. Thanks to the modular nature of the codebase, only minimal changes are needed in the code.

Torchvision is a package that consists of popular datasets, model architectures, and common image transformations for computer vision. It contains, among others, a model-zoo of pre-trained models for image classification, object detection, person keypoint detection, semantic segmentation and instance segmentation models, ready for out-of-the-box use. This makes a PyTorch user’s life significantly easier as it shortens the time between an idea and a product. Or a research paper. Or a blog post.

Torchvision does not contain implementations of single-shot object detection models, such as this popular SSD. So, we added one: an SSD implementation based on a Torchvision model as a backbone for feature extraction. Since its release, many improvements have been constructed on the original SSD. However, we have focused on the original SSD meta-architecture for clarity and simplicity.
